DOC-2381: add new `Math` Plugin documentation for TinyMCE 7.1. (#3253)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/math.adoc

= Math plugin
:navtitle: Math Plugin

> :description: {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert math equation into the {productname} editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: {pluginname} plugin allows users to insert math equations into the {productname} editor.
```

:description_short: Insert `+<math>+` elements into {productname}.
:keywords: plugin, math, formulas
:pluginname: Math
:plugincode: math
:plugincategory: premium

include::partial$misc/admon-paid-addon-pricing.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-7.1v.adoc[]

The {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert complex formulas.

== Interactive example

liveDemo::{plugincode}[]

== Basic setup

> To setup the {pluginname} plugin user-interface in the editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the {pluginname} plugin user interface in the editor:
```

* add `+math+` to the plugins option in the editor configuration;

For example:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'math',
  toolbar: 'math',
});
----

== How to Use

To work with math elements, follow these steps:

. Open the {productname} editor with the {pluginname} plugin enabled.
.. Click the {pluginname} plugin icon in the toolbar to `insert` or `edit` a math element.

> .. This opens the {pluginname} dialog which allows the user to choose between either `LaTex` and `MathML` equations for the formulas field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. This opens the {pluginname} dialog which allows the user to choose between either `LaTeX` and `MathML` equations for the formulas field.
```

> . Open the {productname} editor with the {pluginname} plugin enabled.
> .. Click the {pluginname} plugin icon in the toolbar to `insert` or `edit` a math element.
> .. This opens the {pluginname} dialog which allows the user to choose between either `LaTeX` and `MathML` equations for the formulas field.
> .. By default, `LaTeX` is selected.
> . In the {pluginname} dialog, use the textarea when inserting formulas.
> .. Choose to `insert` the formula either as a **block** paragraph or **inline** with text.
> . Once the formula has been added, the preview section within the modal dialog will render the final math equation.
> . After reviewing the formula, click the `save` button.
> .. This inserts the math equation into the editor, wrapped in either a `+<tiny-math-block>+` or `+<tiny-math-inline>+` element based on the **Text Wrap** chosen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Enable Math Plugin
+
.. Open the {productname} editor with the {pluginname} plugin enabled.
+
. Insert or Edit {pluginname} Elements
.. Click the {pluginname}  plugin icon in the toolbar.
.. This opens the {pluginname} dialog.
.. Select preferred **language**
.. Enter {pluginname} **formula** in the textarea.
.. Choose preferred **text wrap**
+
. Preview and Save
.. Check {pluginname} formula output in **preview.**
.. Review the final {pluginname} equation in the **preview** section.
.. Click the **save** button in the {pluginname} dialog.
.. The {pluginname} equation is inserted into the editor, wrapped accordingly based on the chosen **text wrap.**
```

[TIP]
The formula is inserted at the last cursor position before the modal dialog was opened.

> === Inserting LaTeX formulas (Block)

Reviewer: Do we need to have separate headings for both Latex and MathML or can we just have one math block heading and one math inline heading? They result in essentially the same HTML except for the `formula` attribute.

> The <tiny-math-block formula=""> custom tag is used to wrap the <math>, <semantics>, and <mrow> tags when inserting a LaTeX formulas when "Text above and below" `Text Wrap` is selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `+<tiny-math-block formula="">+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<semantics>+`, and `+<mrow>+` tags when inserting a LaTeX formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Text above and below`.
```

[source]
----
<tiny-math-block formula="">
  <math>
    <semantics>
      <mrow>
      </mrow>
    </semantics>
  </math>
</tiny-math-block>
----

=== Inserting LaTeX formulas (Inline)

> The <tiny-math-inline formula=""> custom tag is used to wrap the <math>, <semantics>, and <mrow> tags when inserting a LaTeX formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `+<tiny-math-inline formula="">+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<semantics>+`, and `+<mrow>+` tags when inserting a LaTeX formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.
```

[source]
----
<tiny-math-inline formula="">
  <math>
    <semantics>
      <mrow>
      </mrow>
    </semantics>
  </math>
</tiny-math-inline></p>
----

=== Inserting MathML formulas (Block)

> The <tiny-math-block> custom tag is used to wrap the <math>, <mrow>, and <mn> tags when inserting a MathML formulas when "Text above and below" `Text Wrap` is selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `+<tiny-math-block>+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<mrow>+`, and `+<mn>+` tags when inserting a MathML formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Text above and below`.
```

[source]
----
<tiny-math-block>
  <math>
    <mrow>
     <mn>
     </mn>
    </mrow>
  </math>
</tiny-math-block>
----

=== Inserting MathML formulas (Inline)

> The <tiny-math-block-inline> custom tag is used to wrap the <math>, <mrow>, and <mn> tags when inserting a MathML formulas when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `+<tiny-math-block-inline>+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<mrow>+`, and `+<mn>+` tags when inserting a MathML formulas when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.
```

[source]
----
<tiny-math-block-inline>
  <math>
    <mrow>
     <mn>
     </mn>
    </mrow>
  </math>
</tiny-math-block-inline>

> ----

Reviewer 3: +

> [source]
> ----
> <tiny-math-block formula="">
>   <math>
>     <semantics>
>       <mrow>
>       </mrow>
>     </semantics>
>   </math>
> </tiny-math-block>
> ----
> 
> === Inserting LaTeX formulas (Inline)
> 
> The `+<tiny-math-inline formula="">+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<semantics>+`, and `+<mrow>+` tags when inserting a LaTeX formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.
> 
> [source]
> ----
> <tiny-math-inline formula="">
>   <math>
>     <semantics>
>       <mrow>
>       </mrow>
>     </semantics>
>   </math>
> </tiny-math-inline></p>
> ----
> 
> === Inserting MathML formulas (Block)
> 
> The `+<tiny-math-block>+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<mrow>+`, and `+<mn>+` tags when inserting a MathML formulas, when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Text above and below`.
> 
> [source]
> ----
> <tiny-math-block>
>   <math>
>     <mrow>
>      <mn>
>      </mn>
>     </mrow>
>   </math>
> </tiny-math-block>
> ----
> 
> === Inserting MathML formulas (Inline)
> 
> The `+<tiny-math-block-inline>+` custom tag is used to wrap the `+<math>+`, `+<mrow>+`, and `+<mn>+` tags when inserting a MathML formulas when the `Text Wrap` is set to `Inline with Text`.
> 
> [source]
> ----
> <tiny-math-block-inline>
>   <math>
>     <mrow>
>      <mn>
>      </mn>
>     </mrow>
>   </math>
> </tiny-math-block-inline>
> ----
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

= Math plugin
:navtitle: Math Plugin

> :description: {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert a `+<math>+` element into the {productname} editor.

Reviewer 4: I wonder if we should not mention that it inserts a math element since technically it inserts a `tiny-math-block` or a `tiny-math-inline` element with a `math` element inside at the moment. But future versions might skip the math element though options if you want to render that your self.

```suggestion
:description: {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert math equation into the {productname} editor.
```

:description_short: Insert `+<math>+` elements into {productname}.
:keywords: plugin, math, formulas
:pluginname: Math
:plugincode: math
:plugincategory: premium

include::partial$misc/admon-paid-addon-pricing.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-7.1v.adoc[]

> The {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert complex formulas into `+<math>+` element blocks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert complex formulas.
```

== Interactive example

liveDemo::{plugincode}[]

== Basic setup

To setup the {pluginname} plugin user-interface in the editor:

* add `+math+` to the plugins option in the editor configuration;

For example:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'math',
  toolbar: 'math',
});
----

== How to Use

To work with math elements, follow these steps:

. Open the {productname} editor with the `math` plugin enabled.
.. Click the math plugin icon in the toolbar to `insert` or `edit` a math element.
.. This opens the math dialog which allows the user to choose between either `LaTex` and `MathML` equations for the formulas field.
.. By default, `LaTeX` is selected.
. In the math dialog, use the textarea when inserting formulas.
.. Choose to `insert` the formula either as a **block** paragraph or **inline** with text.

> . Once the formula has been added, the preview `iframe` section within the modal dialog will render the final math equation.

Reviewer 4: Drop iframe since might not use a iframe in the future more of an implementation detail.

```suggestion
. Once the formula has been added, the preview section within the modal dialog will render the final math equation.
```

. After reviewing the formula, click the `save` button.

> .. This inserts the finalized math equation into the editor, wrapped in either a `+<div>+` or `+<span>+` element based on the `text-wrap` chosen. The formula is inserted at the last cursor position before the modal dialog was opened.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. This inserts the finalized math equation into the editor, wrapped in either a `+<tiny-math-block>+` or `+<tiny-math-inline>+` element based on the `text-wrap` chosen. The formula is inserted at the last cursor position before the modal dialog was opened.
```

[NOTE]
{pluginname} uses the below `custom_elements` to insert complex mathematical content into {productname}. {companyname} does not recommend using custom_element names for `blockMathTag` and `inlineMathTag` to avoid issues when using the {pluginname}.

> Learn more about Custom elements, see xref:content-filtering.adoc#custom_elements[custom_elements] and xref:content-filtering.adoc#example-using-custom_elements-with-presets-such-as-blocks-phrasing-and-flow[example using custom_elements].

Reviewer 4: I think we can skip this it uses custom elements for wrapping the math formulas but not sure we need to mention that again it's mentioned above.

The {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert complex formulas.

== Interactive example

liveDemo::{plugincode}[]

== Basic setup

To set up the {pluginname} plugin user interface in the editor:

* add `+math+` to the plugins option in the editor configuration;

For example:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'math',
  toolbar: 'math',
});
----

== How to Use

To work with math elements, follow these steps:

. **Enable Math Plugin**
+
.. Open the {productname} editor with the {pluginname} plugin enabled.
+
. **Insert or Edit {pluginname} Elements**
.. Click the {pluginname}  plugin icon in the toolbar.
.. This opens the {pluginname} dialog.
.. Select preferred **language**
.. Enter {pluginname} **formula** in the textarea.
.. Choose preferred **text wrap**
+
. **Preview and Save**
.. Check {pluginname} formula output in **preview.**
.. Review the final {pluginname} equation in the **preview** section.
.. Click the **save** button in the {pluginname} dialog.
.. The {pluginname} equation is inserted into the editor, wrapped accordingly based on the chosen **text wrap.**

> +
> **Formula Tag Wrapping**
> . The {pluginname} dialog wraps the inserted formula with a specific tag.
> . The choice of tag depends on the selected **text wrap** option in the dialog:
> .. For block (Text above and below) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
> .. For inline (Inline with text) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+

//

**Formula Tag Wrapping**

. The {pluginname} dialog wraps the inserted formula with a specific tag.
. The choice of tag depends on the selected **text wrap** option in the dialog:
.. For block (Text above and below) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
.. For inline (Inline with text) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.
```

> . **Formula Tag Wrapping**
> .. The {pluginname} dialog wraps the inserted formula with a specific tag.
> .. The choice of tag depends on the selected **text wrap** option in the dialog:
> ... For block (Text above and below) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
> ... For inline (Inline with text) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Formula Tag Wrapping**
. The {pluginname} dialog wraps the inserted formula with a specific tag.
. The choice of tag depends on the selected **text wrap** option in the dialog:
.. For block (Text above and below) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
.. For inline (Inline with text) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.
```

= Math plugin
:navtitle: Math Plugin
:description: {pluginname} plugin allows users to insert math equations into the {productname} editor.
:description_short: Insert `+<math>+` elements into {productname}.
:keywords: plugin, math, formulas
:pluginname: Math
:plugincode: math
:plugincategory: premium

include::partial$misc/admon-paid-addon-pricing.adoc[]

include::partial$misc/admon-requires-7.1v.adoc[]

The {pluginname} plugin provides a way for users to insert complex formulas.

== Interactive example

liveDemo::{plugincode}[]

== Basic setup

To set up the {pluginname} plugin user interface in the editor:

* add `+math+` to the plugins option in the editor configuration;

For example:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'math',
  toolbar: 'math',
});
----

== How to Use

To work with math elements, follow these steps:

. **Enable Math Plugin**
+
.. Open the {productname} editor with the {pluginname} plugin enabled.
+
. **Insert or Edit {pluginname} Elements**

> .. Click the {pluginname}  plugin icon in the toolbar.

Reviewer 4: I'm guessing spaces will be removed by the browser rendering.

```suggestion
.. Click the {pluginname} plugin icon in the toolbar.
```

.. This opens the {pluginname} dialog.
.. Select preferred **language**
.. Enter {pluginname} **formula** in the textarea.
.. Choose preferred **text wrap**
+
. **Preview and Save**
.. Check {pluginname} formula output in **preview.**
.. Review the final {pluginname} equation in the **preview** section.
.. Click the **save** button in the {pluginname} dialog.
.. The {pluginname} equation is inserted into the editor, wrapped accordingly based on the chosen **text wrap.**
+

> //

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

**Formula Tag Wrapping**

. The {pluginname} dialog wraps the inserted formula with a specific tag.
. The choice of tag depends on the selected **text wrap** option in the dialog:

> .. For block (Text above and below) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
> .. For inline (Inline with text) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. For block (_Text above and below_) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
.. For inline (_Inline with text_) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.
```

> .. For block (_Text above and below_) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-block>.
> .. For inline (_Inline with text_) text wrap, the tag used is <tiny-math-inline>.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
.. For block (_Text above and below_) text wrap, the tag used is `<tiny-math-block>`.
.. For inline (_Inline with text_) text wrap, the tag used is `<tiny-math-inline>`.
```

> 
> [TIP]
> The formula is inserted at the last cursor position before the modal dialog was opened.

Reviewer 6: All dialogs that insert content do this, I don't think we need to state it (nor do we for any other plugin dialog).
```suggestion
```
